Ideas for energy: can take perspective of many characters and read as flow from a starting point. The Iliad is itself a flowing circuit. For example: x told his messenger "say m to y". The messenger said m to y. Y has an energy. X has an energy. This is called the narrator energy. The energy of the existing flow. The "Isis" route.

Energy of certain characters or forces or Gods. Zeus, Athena, Aphrodite, Achilles, Hector, Agammemnon, Apollo, lesser characters. Can take perspective of many forces.

Has depictions of death, energy traps, electric death. The Iliad precedes and aligns with everything happening today

Energy of a critical watcher. Considering possibilities

Nestor is an orator. An intelligent, temperate speaker for the Acheans. Tries to maintain harmony among their camp. Cicero is also an orator

Nestor speech - starts off indirectly. Starting point is something of emotional pride and shared struggle to the Acheans. Not a point of contention. Almost a non-sequitor which does not feel liek a non-sequitor due to everyone agreeing with it, and the fact that it is on everyone's mind. "The Acheans have fallen on hard times". This is "logical thread cutting" without feeling at all like thread cutting due to its combination of continuing emotional weight, yet a pleasantness in the emotion and shared sentiment. Then going even further away from the previous thread - "remember this other, elder, very respected man? He loved when I discussed the lineage of the Argives with him (subtle brag)". Very far from previous topic - Menelaus must not fight because he will lose, yet someone better fight Hector or else they will get a huge testosterone boost at the expense of the Acheans. Then: loop back, but in a way which does not directly reference anyone or anything, yet is still extremely relevant: "would it not break his heart to see us all quaking before Hector?" Uses emotional appeal and pride to help direct the action. He is temperate yet not always a "weak peacemaker". 

Areithous versus Lycurgus - Areisthus was considered "mace man". The mace was his weapon of choice. He would break opponents with mace instead of bow or spear, which was unusual. Lycurgus beat him "not in fair fight" - debateable for reasons below. Lycurgus used a very intelligent strategy. He made it so that the weapon Areisthus relied upon was ineffective. Trapping him in a narrow way where he cannot swing the weight of the mace. Or if he attempts to swing it the swing is weak whereas the spear of Lycurugs has range and can pierce as Areisthus lifts up his arms. Speared him throught the chest - the vitality of a man - he is deprived of his forward energy and falls backwards, when he was once fully forward (a mace man must be very aggressive and forward swinging). All of that charged yang energy quickly converted to yin is almost insta-death. He falls dead on his back
- What constitutes a "fair fight"? All conditions must be equal? Or they must sum up by some mathematical function to an equal quantity? Is this ever truly possible? It is approximately possible in some cases depending on the frame of reference. "mace man" himself is an unusual opponent which other warriors are not used to, everyone else is using bow and spear, perhaps they thought Areisthus himself was not a fair fighter. Lycurgus used strategy.
- Nestor is embellishing the glory because Areisthus is one of them, Lycurgus is not
- Link to Musashi - must master several weapons and not stick to one

Areithous the mace-man is like Mars - aggressive, forward energy, seeing red.

The Greeks took the armour of their foes to rob them of their energy and harness it for themselves. Kind of like a video game. Taking the essence of the adversary. In fact a respectful action for an element of theirs which is worthy of being part of one's arsenal.

Nestor the orator was once a great and celebrated warrior. This is perhaps the reason the Greeks and Trojans alike have utmost respect for him.

"Athena vouchsafed him the victory". Perhaps gods themselves were "bettors" and "simulators", can reduce situations into components which they have seen before and put them together into an "omen" or probability of outcome. Some of them are either liars or too arrogant. Humans trusted the gods. So all they had to do was either have faith in the pre-existing outcome and not overthink, or follow the circuit (Zeus). Gods can act as circuit breakers or movers.

The gods/planets are like a set of degrees of freedom of different elements, and linear combinations thereof. The configurations of planets, stars, animals, "voices of the gods", and so on, act as a set of "semi-independent" variables (there are certainly commonalities between them which may be hard to find). Link to deep learning. The more is known abou these configurations the more certain outcomes are likely (but also easier to direct...)